# DBM-Frostmourne

A version of WotLK DBM with accurate timers for Warmane servers. Please see the Release tab to find the latest stable version.

[Frostmourne Changelog](https://github.com/zbruennig/DBM-Frostmourne/blob/master/DBM-Core/DBM%20Warmane-Frostmourne%20Changelog.txt)<br>
[Warmane Forum Thread](http://forum.warmane.com/showthread.php?t=422169)

### An Explanation

There's a very good chance if you're reading this that you're aware of the controversy behind this project. If not, please refer to the Forum link above.<br>

A couple of common questions I've gotten are "Why did you do that?", or "Are you sorry/do you regret it?", or "How does it work?". For that last one, there is a fairly succinct explanation now within that forum thread which explains a majority of the technical details. I defer to that.

Do I regret my decisions to release it? For a short answer; I don't. Anyone who's examined the project closely can inference that a lot of the decisions made are extremely deliberate, from the timing of the release, to its viral nature, and, believe it or not, the decision for it to become "exposed". Let me elaborate on that last point. The malicious parts of the code were not found, to my knowledge, by some random developer snooping through the code looking for something suspicious. It started as a rumor, one which had been spreading for a few days before the official statements were made denouncing this project as a virus, preventing its functionality, and effectively removing me from the community. I was confronted by several people asking if these rumors were true, before any final accusations were made. The question I pose to anyone doubting this claim, is who would have such specific knowledge of dbm, of Warmane, and the changes made through this project to the addon, without examining the code themselves and having 100% confidence of the functionality of the part in question? How, and why, would there be a rumor about the specific technical details of the code, spread as if no one actually knew the answer yet?

The vast majority of the timers and other functionalities added in this project work and are accurate for Warmane's servers. Truth be told, this is by far the most comprehensive version of DBM available for Warmane's bosses. Using another project's specific DBM or the base 3.3.5 version results in incorrect timings (such as the hard mode timer for Thorim, phase transitions of Mimiron, duration of Locust Swarm, timing of drakes landing on Sartharion, etc.), or the alerts missing entirely. Even after all is said and done, it is a relatively trivial coding task to remove the bad parts of the code, update the version, and package it as a completely legitimate and working mod. In fact, I've done just that already, whether or not you or the community at large chooses to accept that is beyond my control and not my concern. But I'll note that the fact that the remainder of the code is not just dummy code and actually serves its purpose is no accident. And not just for believability's sake either; the original intent of developing this was to have a competitive advantage in raids.

So why make this then? What motive do I have to create and distribute the version I did? How much of it was planned and intentionally orchestrated? And most importantly, in my opinion, why would I choose to out myself before the code would even execute?

I suppose an extremely short and not-at-all encompassing answer would be "Out of frustration". Pent-up anger from guilds and raid teams I've been on, servers and projects, in particular Warmane, and maybe just the community and game as a whole. I'll get to it, I promise. But first I'll start with Warmane, and why I have very little remorse towards striking at the reputation of the project.

To which, maybe the best question is, what reputation does it have before? Well to me, its a project driven first and foremost by profit, which in of itself is not inherently bad. I understand that part. But here is a list of recent actions/events which I have personally encountered in my short time interacting with them:

 * Friends of mine have been banned for petty and incorrect reasons with no quality control. Example: needing on a leather hit/AP item as a plate dps user → BAN. It forces everyone to play extra safe, knowing that should controversy arise you do NOT have the benefit of the doubt, and the server does not have your back. Given its already somewhat-shady reputation, it's easy to wonder if there's some kind of ulterior motive with those decisions.
 * Communication from their team is extremely limited. Maybe my understanding of public relations is misguided, but I would believe the best way to address issues with their server - issues on their end which they are solely responsible for - is to address them in some way. At the very least to acknowledge that your voice is heard and that it will actually be looked into in some serious capacity. Me, close friends of mine, as well as just random members of the community all have experiences of just being flat ignored, in a way which is so apathetic it looks like they're being intentionally ignorant because they know they're able to get away with it. And for a bit of context, I've been a gamemaster before. I understand what it's like on the other end and know things aren't always as easy as they sound, but there's no excuse for the lack of communication I've received.
   * Multiple tickets of mine were left completely unanswered or were responded with an obvious cut and paste canned reply with no substance. One involved a bug with their server - an item (Wooly Mammoth) was previously available from a vendor but one day was completely removed with no explanation, no changelog, and is 100% supposed to be available at this point in progression. Response from GM team: Please give your suggestion on the forums. I bump a thread describing the issue and that is the last thing I'm able to do.
   * Another issue involves restoration of a store-purchased item (call me a sellout, but remember everyone who wants to play without a queue also must have done the same at some point), which they have a policy of restoring IF it was purchased with coins. It was a unique trinket, and while distributing loot for a raid I had to delete my own to distribute one which dropped (due to the way that raid team handled loot). Following their own policies I would have thought it would be easily verifiable and possible to restore it. But after four days of silence - no messages, mails, anything, good or bad - from their team it was clear they didn't give any cares.
   * There's also a boss right now, OS3D, which, when killed, will crash your game once it is looted. Everyone's game, like the whole raid. It's reported as a bug by many people and clearly, with how widespread it is, you would agree it is a server issue and not one individual person. If you handle loot incorrectly then some items will be lost forever. Response from Warmane: We cannot help recover any items unless they were purchased through our own shop. Yup, not even in the case that it's a server issue on our end that you have no control over. They would rather fix the issue by forcing their own players to either give money to the server for no rational reason than actually fix the bug or at least acknowledge and own up to their own issue.

So let me ask you this. Given the history of this team and project - not just my personal experiences but years of history of similar acts, an extreme emphasis on cash shop, and a reputation which would cause some players to call the project a "cesspool" - if the "virus" were to affect you, what would happen? En masse potentially hundreds of players could lose their weapons; guilds would be disbanded and entire guild banks would be gone. A realm first race potentially ruined. Would you trust this project to resolve it properly? Would they have your back, or would you be on your own just like the playerbase has been for years? Could you have the things you lost restored, or would you be told to purchase them again through their shop, if you cared so much about those items? Would a server driven by greed choose players over profit? It's difficult to know for sure, and I personally believe it's unjust to profit off people while disrespecting their concerns at the exact same time. If nothing else, I like to think if this did go through sucessfully it would have put a giant spotlight on their practices. I'm sure a lot of people would be very eager to know how they'd respond.

Why would I choose Algalon? Aside from allowing it to be a very fitting end with a "Big Bang", it was an intentional decision. Initially I had considered tying the code to an earlier boss, such as XT on Tantrum or activating Heartbreaker, for maximum player impact. If I were to target distribution to one group of people, it would be the high-end raiding teams. The ones who have practiced and practiced to perfect their teams and speed clear the content well before anyone else. As Algalon is a timed boss, the impact of affecting characters there when there's limited time to recover hits a lot harder. Plus this is after nearly all other bosses have been cleared and these guilds have blitzed through so much, so quickly. As someone who's played on many levels of raiding, I've always wondered one question about chasing this on a private server; what fun is there in racing through the same content after the entire team has had ample time to practice it? Just to brag and show off your prowess to people "lesser" than you? There's players in these teams who seem to raid for no other reason than out of spite for other people getting it first. The toxicity I've seen from this group of people, from other guilds and teams I've personally been a part of, is overwhelming, and diminishes the quality of the game for everyone else. That's not an opinion shared by me alone; I've seen so many people quit playing entirely due to people who want to make everything a fight. But, I understand that's not everyone, even a majority of people, so I decided my goal shouldn't be to cause maximum chaos, but targeting and showing a group of people what their own medicine can deliver. That could be seen as petty, sure, and probably no matter what I say there's going to be a handful of critics who will think I did this for entirely selfish reasons and out of spite. I don't know if I would agree with that. Or even, if they cannot dismiss my actions as baseless, I cannot truthfully say this was unprovoked, that there was no reason or incentive for this to happen. That years of disappointments, letdowns, and betrayals across the board towards me and others don't warrant some kind of response. And this might be the most impactful platform I have.

To me, this might just be merely a reflection of a selfish community with exceeding demands and unrealistic expectations. As well as a number of people who choose to abuse that former group for profit. It's not a healthy thing at all; private servers and maybe all of WoW will never be anything but a vice to me. The personal impact to me is threefold. I get to have my "15 minutes of fame" or whatever, if you really believe that's actually what I was after. Second, I can explain my story, and in a twisted way "get back" at some people who have done me wrong. But the most important reason is personal; it's a door to leave this community for good. It's been all to easy for me to get roped back in by one hook or another, some friends need more people for a roster or another server is overhyped and then let down. This is the most surefire way I can think of to force myself out of any future projects, expansions, raid teams, or anything else. For my own good, I need to be banished from here forever. Years of playing on these servers have messed me up in the head more than I can explain (clearly, as it all came to this), and in that goal of slaying things for internet glory there's nothing more impactful I could have done than this. Consider this, even after all the dust settles and everyone moves on from this, me included, how wary will you be the next time someone links a custom addon or Weakaura string to you?

To my final point: That's all I needed to do. To accomplish the goals I wanted the code never had to be ran; other people's hard work did not have to be ruined. Despite the intent, there really was no need for me to actually see it through to the end, unless I really just wanted to see the drama live in action. But I realized I really didn't care about that. Thus the rumor was started - an intentional plan to sabotage my own efforts and make me the bad guy. It's been a ride, but I hope we never see each other in Azeroth again.

I suppose at the end of it all, at the very least Warmane has a proper DBM now.
